
The Healing Power of Music

Billy Joel, the famous American songwriter and performer, once said:

    I think music in itself is healing. It’s an explosive exion of humanity. It’s something we are all touched by. No matter what culture we’re from, everyone loves music.

And we do love music, don’t we? I think everyone would agree with that. Music touches us in deep ways that words alone cannot. It stirs our emotions and our imagination, and makes our body move. We all have experienced this. We’ve even seen music used as a learning tool. However, can music really be used as a medicine? Can it really be a healing method for certain illnesses?

Well, according to researchers and practitioners of music therapy, the answer is yes. Indeed, music can heal people in various situations. For example, music can make a big difference to people with brain injuries: it can activate the brain in alternative ways, often bypassing the damaged areas, allowing people to regain movement or speech. In this way, music actually changes the structure of the brain, giving people new chances to move and speak.

Also, studies have shown that music therapy can improve heart and breathing rates, as well as anxiety and pain in cancer patients. And in the field of psychology, music has been used to help people suffering from deion and sadness. Also, for children with developmental disabilities, music can give them a fresh way to communicate.

If you want to see an example of the healing power of music, then watch the video below about Henry, an old man who has been living in a nursing home for 10 years. Like some people his age, Henry is suffering from dementia. He forgets things easily and has lost many of his mental abilities. In fact, Henry lives in his own world, often unresponsive to other people. But the nurses discovered that if they let him listen to his favorite music from the past, he is instantly transformed with life energy, and suddenly able to have conversations with the people around him. Music breathes life into his body and mind. It truly is an amazing example of the healing power of music. 